Defining Content
================

:term:`Resource` is the term that Substance D uses to describe an object
placed in the :term:`resource tree`.  

Ideally, all resources in your resource tree will be
:term:`content`. "Content" is the term that Substance D uses to describe
resource objects that are particularly well-behaved when they appear in the
SDI management interface.  The Substance D management interface (aka
:term:`SDI`) is a set of views imposed upon the resource tree that allow you
to add, delete, change and otherwise manage resources.

You can convince the management interface that your particular resources are
content.  To define a resource as content, you need to associate a resource
with a :term:`content type`.

Registering Content
-------------------

In order to add new content to the system, you need to associate a
:term:`resource factory` with a :term:`content type`.  A resource factory
that generates content must have these properties:

- It must be a class, or a factory function that returns an instance of a
  resource class.

- Instances of the resource class must be *persistent* (it must derive from
  the ``persistent.Persistent`` class or a class that derives from Persistent
  such as :class:`substanced.folder.Folder`).

- The resource class or factory must be decorated with the ``@content``
  decorator, or must be added at configuration time via
  ``config.add_content_type``.

- It must have a *type*.  A type acts as a globally unique categorization
  marker, and allows the content to be constructed, enumerated, and
  introspected by various Substance D UI elements such as "add forms", and
  queries by the management interface for the icon name of a resource.  The
  type is defined as a class that inherits from the
  :class:`substanced.content.Type` class, or as a string.

Here's an example which defines a content resource factory as a class:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       Type,
       content,
       )     

   class BlogEntryType(Type):
       pass

   @content(BlogEntryType)
   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

Here's an example of defining a content resource factory with the type given
as a string instead of a Type instance:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       content,
       )     

   @content('BlogEntryType')
   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

Here's an example of defining a content resource factory using a function
instead:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       Type,
       content,
       )     

   class BlogEntryType(Type):
       pass

   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

   @content(BlogEntryType)
   def make_blog_entry(title, body):
       return BlogEntry(title, body)

.. note::

   When a resource factory is not a class, Substance D will wrap the resource
   factory in something that applies the type to the resource object returned
   from the factory using ``zope.interface.alsoProvides``.  In the above
   case, ``zope.interface.directlyProvides(resource, BlogEntryType)`` will be
   done after the resource object is returned from ``make_blog_entry``.

In order to activate a ``@content`` decorator, it must be *scanned* using the
Pyramid ``config.scan()`` machinery:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.__init__

   from pyramid.config import Configurator

   def main(global_config, **settings):
       config = Configurator()
       config.include('substanced')
       config.scan('blog.resources')
       # .. and so on ...

Instead of using the ``@content`` decorator, you can alternately add a
content resource imperatively at configuration time using the
``add_content_type`` method of the Configurator:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.__init__

   from pyramid.config import Configurator
   from .resources import BlogEntryType, BlogEntry

   def main(global_config, **settings):
       config = Configurator()
       config.include('substanced')
       config.add_content_type(BlogEntryType, BlogEntry)

This does the same thing as using the ``@content`` decorator, but you don't
need to ``scan()`` your resources if you use ``add_content_type`` instead of
the ``@content`` decorator.

Once a content type has been defined (and scanned, if it's been defined using
a decorator), an instance of the resource can be constructed from within a
view that lives in your application:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.views

   from pyramid.httpexceptions import HTTPFound
   from .resources import BlogEntryType

   @view_config(name='add_blog_entry', request_method='POST')
   def add_blogentry(request):
       title = request.POST['title']
       body = request.POST['body']
       entry = request.registry.content.create(BlogEntryType, title, body)
       context['title] = entry
       return HTTPFound(request.resource_url(entry))

The arguments passed to ``request.registry.content.create`` must start with
the content type, and must be followed with whatever arguments are required
by the resource factory.

Creating an instance of content this way isn't particularly more useful than
creating an instance of the resource object directly by calling its class
``__init__`` unless you're building a highly abstract system.  But even if
you're not building a very abstract system, types can be very useful.  For
instance, types can be enumerated:

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.views

   @view_config(name='show_types', renderer='show_types.pt')
   def show_types(request):
       all_types = request.registry.content.all()
       return {'all_types':all_types}

``request.registry.content.all()`` will return all type objects you've
defined and scanned.

Metadata
--------

A content's type can be associated with metadata about that type, including
the content type's name, its icon in the SDI management interface, an add
view name, and other things.  Pass keyword arguments to the ``@content``
decorator or ``config.add_content_type`` to specify metadata.

Names
~~~~~

You can associate a content type registration with a name that shows up when
someone attempts to add such a piece of content using the SDI management
interface "Add" tab by passing a ``name`` keyword argument to ``@content``
or ``config.add_content_type``.

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       Type,
       content,
       )     

   class BlogEntryType(Type):
       pass

   @content(BlogEntryType, name='Blog Entry')
   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

Once you've done this, the "Add" tab in the SDI management interface will
show your content as addable using this name instead of the type name.

Icons
~~~~~

You can associate a content type registration with a management view icon by
passing an ``icon`` keyword argument to ``@content`` or ``add_content_type``.

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       Type,
       content,
       )     

   class BlogEntryType(Type):
       pass

   @content(BlogEntryType, icon='icon-file')
   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

Once you've done this, content you add to a folder in the sytem will display
the icon next to it in the contents view of the management interface and in
the breadcrumb list.  The available icon names are listed at
http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/base-css.html#icons .

Add Views
~~~~~~~~~

You can associate a content type with view that will allow the type to be
added by passing the name of the add view as a keyword argument to
``@content`` or ``add_content_type``.

.. code-block:: python

   # in a module named blog.resources

   from persistent import Persistent
   from substanced.content import (
       Type,
       content,
       )     

   class BlogEntryType(Type):
       pass

   @content(BlogEntryType, add_view='add_blog_entry')
   class BlogEntry(Persistent):
       def __init__(self, title, body):
           self.title = title
           self.body = body

Once you've done this, if the button is clicked in the "Add" tab for this
content type, the related view will be presented to the user.

Obtaining Metadata About a Content Object's Type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``request.registry.content.metadata(blogentry, 'icon')``

  Will return the icon for the blogentry's content type or ``None`` if it
  does not exist.

``request.registry.content.metadata(document, 'icon', 'icon-file')``

  Will return the icon for the blogentry's content type or ``icon-file`` if
  it does not exist.
